w01-controlling-the-dom/d3-homework/README.md, before:

# Wednesday Homework!

### Work through tutorial Option 1 or 2 and continue:

1. Tutorial Option 1: <a href="https://www.codecademy.com/tracks/jquery" target="_blank">jQuery on Code Academy</a>.

1. Tutorial Option 2: <a href="http://try.jquery.com/levels/1/challenges/1" target="_blank">jQuery on Code School</a>.

1. Check out the <a href="http://api.jquery.com/" target="_blank">jQuery Documentation</a>. Read the `.append()`, `.css()` and `.html()` core methods and under Effects, please read `.hide()`, `.show()` and `.animate()`. (Can you read more than this? Of course! But these are very useful and relatively easy to implement.)

1. Inside your  `22-homework/GITHUB_NAME` or `23-homework/GITHUB_NAME` repo, create a file called `day3.html`.

1. Import jQuery in `day3.html`, create some content with text and at least one image. Add three buttons and implement three different jQuery methods. (Can you implement methods not listed above? Of course! But please make sure the user can SEE something unique change on your page for each button press.)

1. Use the homework submission instructions from the `22-homework` or `23-homework` repo to submit your homework through a pull request!

Commit message:

add more detailed instructions for hw; add bs css

w01-controlling-the-dom/d3-homework/README.md, after:

# Wednesday Homework!

### Work through tutorial Option 1 or 2 and continue:

1. Tutorial Option 1: <a href="https://www.codecademy.com/tracks/jquery" target="_blank">jQuery on Code Academy</a>.

1. Tutorial Option 2: <a href="http://try.jquery.com/levels/1/challenges/1" target="_blank">try jQuery on Code School</a>, sections: 
  * all of <a href="http://try.jquery.com/levels/1/challenges/1" target="_blank">chapter 1</a>
  * <a href="http://try.jquery.com/levels/3/sections/2" target="_blank">3.2 "Manipulating the DOM"</a>
  * <a href="http://try.jquery.com/levels/3/sections/7" target="_blank">3.7 "Acting on Interaction"</a>

1. Check out the <a href="http://api.jquery.com/" target="_blank">jQuery Documentation</a>. Read the `.append()`, `.css()` and `.html()` core method documentation (click each function name in the docs to see more detailed information and examples). Under Effects, please read `.hide()`, `.show()` and `.animate()`. (Can you read more than this? Of course! But these are very useful and relatively easy to implement.)

1. Inside your  `22-homework/GITHUB_NAME` or `23-homework/GITHUB_NAME` repo, create a file called `day3.html`.  

1. Add bootstrap's CSS CDN link, the viewport meta tag, and the charset meta tag to get bootstrap styles in your HTML. In the body, create a `container` div with a `row` div inside it.  Create a `col-md-6 col-offset-3` div inside the `row`. That column is where you'll add your content.

1. Import jQuery in `day3.html`, and use HTML to create some content: at least one paragraph of text and at least one image. Add three `<button>`s.  Use the `on` method to give each button a `click` event handler. Attach a different effect to each button.  For instance, you might have one button hide the image, one button show the image, and one button animate a change of the paragraph's font color. (Can you implement methods not listed above? Of course! But please make sure the user can SEE something unique change on your page for each button press.)

1. Use the homework submission instructions from the `22-homework` or `23-homework` repo to submit your homework through a pull request!
